doc: Moved Matter factory data page content (#24269)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/matter/end_product/factory_provisioning.rst

===================

The factory data set must be saved into a HEX file that can be written to the flash memory of the Matter device.

In the nRF Connect example, the factory data set is represented in the CBOR format and is stored in a HEX file.
The file is then programmed to a device.
The JSON format is used as an intermediate, human-readable representation of the data.
The format is regulated by the `Factory data schema`_ file.

All parameters of the factory data set are either mandatory or optional:

* Mandatory parameters must always be provided, as they are required for example to perform commissioning to the Matter network.
* Optional parameters can be used for development and testing purposes.
  For example, the `user` data parameter consists of all data that is needed by a specific manufacturer and that is not included in the mandatory parameters.

In the factory data set, the following formats are used:

* uint8, uint16, and uint32 - These are the numeric formats representing, respectively, one-byte length unsigned integer, two-bytes length unsigned integer, and four-bytes length unsigned integer.
  This value is stored in a HEX file in the big-endian order.

> * Byte string - This parameter represents the sequence of integers between `0` and `255`(inclusive), without any encoding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Byte string - This parameter represents the sequence of integers between ``0`` and ``255`` (inclusive), without any encoding.
```

>   Because the JSON format does not allow to use of byte strings, the `hex:` prefix is added to a parameter, and its representation is converted to a HEX string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Because the JSON format does not allow the use of byte strings, the `hex:` prefix is added to a parameter, and its representation is converted to a HEX string.
```

>   For example, an ASCII string _`abba`_ is represented as _`hex:61626261`_ in the JSON file and then stored in the HEX file as `0x61626261`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For example, an ASCII string ``abba`` is represented as ``hex:61626261`` in the JSON file and then stored in the HEX file as ``0x61626261``.
```

  The HEX string length in the JSON file is two times greater than the byte string plus the size of the prefix.
* ASCII string is a string representation in ASCII encoding without null-terminating.

> * ISO 8601 format is a `ISO 8601 date format`_ that represents a date provided in the `YYYY-MM-DD` or `YYYYMMDD` format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ISO 8601 format is a `ISO 8601 date format`_ that represents a date provided in the ``YYYY-MM-DD`` or ``YYYYMMDD`` format.
```

* All certificates stored in factory data are provided in the `X.509`_ format.

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_appearance_field_description:

Appearance field description
----------------------------

> The `appearance` field in the factory data set describes the device's visible appearance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``appearance`` field in the factory data set describes the device's visible appearance.
```
Make sure you have double backticks in all places.

* `finish` - A string name that indicates the visible exterior finish of the product.
  It refers to the `ProductFinishEnum` enum, and currently, you can choose one of the following names:

+------------+------------+
| Name       | Enum value |
+------------+------------+
| `matte`    | 0          |
+------------+------------+
| `satin`    | 1          |
+------------+------------+
| `polished` | 2          |
+------------+------------+
| `rugged`   | 3          |
+------------+------------+
| `fabric`   | 4          |
+------------+------------+
| `other`    | 255        |
+------------+------------+

* `primary_color` - A string name that represents the RGB color space of the device's case color, which is the most representative.
  It refers to the `ColorEnum` enum, and currently, you can choose one of the following names:

(Enum value) color name (`RGB value`)

> | (0) $$\color{black} \color{black}{black}$$ (`#000000`) | (1) $$\color{#000080}{navy}$$ (`#000080`)    | (2) $$\color{#008000}{green}$$ (`#008000`)    | (3) $$\color{#008080}{teal}$$ (`#008080`)    | (4) $$\color{#800080}{maroon}$$ (`#800080`)             |

Reviewer 2: Is this supposed to be a table? 
<img width="730" height="276" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cbf04af9-9f05-4d1b-93fa-48339e8c0401" />

| (5) $$\color{#800080}{purple}$$ (`#800080`)            | (6) $$\color{#808000}{olive}$$ (`#800080`)   | (7) $$\color{#808080}{gray}$$ (`#800080`)     | (8) $$\color{blue}{blue}$$ (`#0000FF`)       | (9) $$\color{lime}{lime}$$ (`#00FF00`)                  |
| (10) $$\color{aqua}{aqua}$$ (`#00FFFF`)                | (11) $$\color{red}{red}$$ (`#FF0000`)        | (12) $$\color{fuchsia}{fuchsia}$$ (`#FF00FF`) | (13) $$\color{yellow}{yellow}$$ (`#FFFF00`)  | (14) $$\color{white} \color{white}{white}$$ (`#800080`) |
| (15) $$\color{#727472}{nickel}$$ (`#727472`)           | (16) $$\color{#a8a9ad}{chrome}$$ (`#a8a9ad`) | (17) $$\color{#E1C16E}{brass}$$ (`#E1C16E`)   | (18) $$\color{#B87333}{copper}$$ (`#B87333`) | (19) $$\color{#C0C0C0}{silver}$$ (`#C0C0C0`)            |
| (20) $$\color{gold}{gold}$$ (`#FFD700`)                |

Enabling factory data support
*****************************

By default, the factory data support is disabled in all nRF Connect examples and the nRF Connect device uses predefined parameters from the Matter core, which you should not change.

> To start using factory data stored in the flash memory and the ``Factory Data Provider`` from the nRF Connect platform, build an example with the following option (replace _<build_target>_ with your board name, for example, `nrf52840dk_nrf52840`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start using factory data stored in the flash memory and the ``Factory Data Provider`` from the nRF Connect platform, build an example with the following option (replace ``<build_target>`` with your board name, for example, ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840``):
```

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   west build -b <build_target> -- -DCONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA=y

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_generating_factory_data:

Generating factory data
***********************

This section describes generating factory data using the following nRF Connect Python scripts:

* The first script creates a JSON file that contains a user-friendly representation of the factory data.
* The second script uses the JSON file to create a factory data partition and save it to a HEX file.

After these operations, you will program a HEX file containing factory data partition into the device's flash memory.

You can use the second script without invoking the first one by providing a JSON file written in another way.
To make sure that the JSON file is correct and the device is able to read out parameters, :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_verifying_using_json_schema_tool`.

> You can also use only the first script to generate both JSON and HEX files, by providing optional `offset` and `size` arguments, which results in invoking the script internally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use only the first script to generate both JSON and HEX files, by providing optional ``offset`` and ``size`` arguments, which results in invoking the script internally.
```

.. note::
   To generate new certificates using the nRF Connect platform build system, you need the `chip-cert` executable in your system variable PATH.
   To learn how to get `chip-cert`, go to the note at the end of the :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_creating_the_factory_data_partition_with_the_second_script` section, and then add the newly built executable to the system variable PATH.
   The Cmake build system will find this executable automatically.

After that, use the following command from the example's directory to write firmware and newly generated factory data at the same time:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   $ west flash

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_using_own_factory_data_implementation:

Using own factory data implementation
*************************************

The :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_generating_factory_data` described above is only an example valid for the nRF Connect platform.
You can well create a HEX file containing all :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_factory_data_component_table` in any format and then implement a parser to read out all parameters and pass them to a provider.

> Each manufacturer can implement a factory data set on its own byimplementing a parser and a factory data accessor inside the Matter stack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each manufacturer can implement a factory data set on its own by implementing a parser and a factory data accessor inside the Matter stack.
```

All those parameters are vendor-specific and must be inserted into a device's persistent storage during the manufacturing process.
The factory data parameters are read at the boot time of a device and can be used in the Matter stack and user application, for example during commissioning.

> This guide describes the process of creating and programming factory data using Matter and the nRF Connect platform from Nordic Semiconductor.

Author: I'm not sure about it. We used to call it "nRF Connect platform in Matter", which is not a code in NCS. In fact we mean the code located in Matter upstream project that is forked and pulled to NCS, as sdk-connectedhomeip. I'm not sure if we can still call it NCS. What do you think?

> This guide describes the process of creating and programming factory data using Matter and the nRF Connect platform from Nordic Semiconductor.

Reviewer: Maybe we keep it as is. Let's see if anyone else has an opinion about this.

|                        |                                      |                      |              |             | This data is not used by the Matter stack.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|                        |                                      |                      |              |             | To learn how to work with user data, see the :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_how_to_set_user_data` section.                                                                                                     |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------+----------------------+--------------+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Factory data format
===================

The factory data set must be saved into a HEX file that can be written to the flash memory of the Matter device.

> In the nRF Connect example, the factory data set is represented in the CBOR format and is stored in a HEX file.

Author: To be honest I don't know what example it is about :smile: I think it could be not example application, but just nRF implementation that is sort of example how factory data could be implemented. I rephrased it a bit, please take a look.

      * (optional) Generate a new ID and provide it:

        .. code-block:: console

           --generate_rd_uid --rd_uid <rotating device ID unique ID>

         You can find a newly generated unique ID in the console output.

   #. (optional) Add the JSON schema to verify the JSON file (replace the respective variable with the file path):

      .. code-block:: console

         --schema <path to JSON Schema file>

   #. (optional) Add a request to include a pairing passcode in the JSON file:

      .. code-block:: console

         --include_passcode

   #. (optional) Add the request to overwrite existing the JSON file:

      .. code-block:: console

         --overwrite

   #. (optional) Add the appearance of the product:

      .. code-block:: console

         --product_finish <finish> --product_color <color>

   #. (optional) Generate Certification Declaration for testing purposes

      .. code-block:: console

         --chip_cert_path <path to chip-cert executable> --gen_cd

      .. note::
         To generate new Certification Declaration, you need the ``chip-cert`` executable.
         See the note at the end of this section to learn how to get it.

>    #. (optional) Partition offset that is an address in device's NVM memory, where factory data will be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. (optional) Set the partition offset that is an address in device's NVM memory, where factory data will be stored.
```

      .. code-block:: console

         --offset <offset>

      .. note::
         To generate a HEX file with factory data, you need to provide both ``offset`` and ``size`` optional arguments.

>          As a result, ``factory_data.hex`` and ``factory_data.bin`` files are created in the ``output`` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         As a result, the :file:`factory_data.hex` and :file:`factory_data.bin` files are created in the :file:`output` directory.
```

         The first file contains the required memory offset.

>          For this reason, it can be programmed directly to the device using a programmer (for example, ``nrfutil device``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         For this reason, you can program it directly to the device using a programmer (for example, ``nrfutil device``).
```

>    #. (optional) The maximum partition size in device's NVM memory, where factory data will be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. (optional) Set the maximum partition size in device's NVM memory, where factory data will be stored.
```

      .. code-block:: console

         --size <size>

      .. note::
         To generate a HEX file with factory data, you need to provide both ``offset`` and ``size`` optional arguments.

>          As a result, ``factory_data.hex`` and ``factory_data.bin`` files are created in the ``output`` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         As a result, the :file:`factory_data.hex` and :file:`factory_data.bin` files are created in the :file:`output` directory.
```

         The first file contains the required memory offset.

>          For this reason, it can be programmed directly to the device using a programmer (for example, ``nrfutil device``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         For this reason, you can program it directly to the device using a programmer (for example, ``nrfutil device``).
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ python scripts/tools/nrfconnect/generate_nrfconnect_chip_factory_data.py \
   --sn "11223344556677889900" \
   --vendor_id 65521 \
   --product_id 32774 \
   --vendor_name "Nordic Semiconductor ASA" \
   --product_name "not-specified" \
   --date "2022-02-02" \
   --hw_ver 1 \
   --hw_ver_str "prerelase" \
   --dac_cert "credentials/development/attestation/Matter-Development-DAC-FFF1-8006-Cert.der" \
   --dac_key "credentials/development/attestation/Matter-Development-DAC-FFF1-8006-Key.der" \
   --pai_cert "credentials/development/attestation/Matter-Development-PAI-FFF1-noPID-Cert.der" \
   --spake2_it 1000 \
   --spake2_salt "U1BBS0UyUCBLZXkgU2FsdA==" \
   --discriminator 0xF00 \
   --generate_rd_uid \
   --passcode 20202021 \
   --product_finish "matte" \
   --product_color "black" \
   --out "build" \
   --schema "scripts/tools/nrfconnect/nrfconnect_factory_data.schema" \
   --offset 0xf7000 \
   --size 0x1000

As the result of the above example, a unique ID for the rotating device ID is created, SPAKE2+ verifier is generated using the ``spake2p`` executable, and the JSON file is verified using the prepared JSON Schema.

> If the script finishes successfully, go to the location you provided with the ``-o`` argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the script completes successfully, go to the location you provided with the ``-o`` argument.
```

Use the JSON file you find there when :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_generating_factory_data`.

.. note::
   Generating new certificates is optional if default vendor and product IDs are used and requires providing a path to the ``chip-cert`` executable.

>    To get it, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Complete the following steps to get the (what):
```
Not sure where "it" refers to.

>    1.  Navigate to the ``connectedhomeip`` root directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1.  Navigate to the :file:`connectedhomeip` root directory.
```

   #.  In a terminal, run the following command to build the executable:

       .. code-block:: console

          cd src/tools/chip-cert && gn gen out && ninja -C out chip-cert

   #. Add the ``connectedhomeip/src/tools/chip-cert/out/chip-cert`` path as an argument of ``--chip_cert_path`` for the Python script.

.. note::
   By default, overwriting the existing JSON file is disabled.

>    This means that you cannot create a new JSON file with the same name in the exact location as an existing file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This means that you cannot create a new JSON file with the same name in the same location as an existing file.
```

   uint8_t revision[5];
   size_t revision_len = sizeof(revision);
   factoryDataProvider.GetUserKey("revision", revision, revision_len);

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_verifying_using_json_schema_tool:

Verifying using the JSON Schema tool
====================================

The JSON file that contains factory data can be verified using the `Factory data schema`_.
You can use one of three options to validate the structure and contents of the JSON data.

Option 1: Using the php-json-schema tool
----------------------------------------

To check the JSON file using a JSON Schema verification tool manually on a Linux machine, complete the following steps:

1. Install the ``php-json-schema`` package:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ sudo apt install php-json-schema

#. Run the following command, with _<path_to_JSON_file>_ and _<path_to_schema_file>_ replaced with the paths to the JSON file and the Schema file, respectively:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ validate-json <path_to_JSON_file> <path_to_schema_file>

The tool returns empty output in case of success.

Option 2: Using a website validator
-----------------------------------

> You can also use external websites instead of the ``php-json-schema`` tool to verify a factory data JSON file. For example, go to the `JSON Schema Validator website <https://www.jsonschemavalidator.net/>`_, copy-paste the content of the `JSON Schema file <https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/scripts/tools/nrfconnect/nrfconnect_factory_data.schema>`_ to the first window and a JSON file to the second one.

Author: Applied, I have additionally replaced JSON Schema file hyperlink with macro from out links.txt, as it is already present there.

This is done by the `Generate factory data script`_, if you provide optional ``offset`` and ``size`` arguments.
If you provided these arguments, skip the following steps of this section.

You can skip these optional arguments and do this, using the `Generate partition script`_, but this is obsolete solution kept only for backward compatibility:

1. Navigate to the _connectedhomeip_ root directory
#. Run the following command pattern:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ python scripts/tools/nrfconnect/nrfconnect_generate_partition.py -i <path_to_JSON_file> -o <path_to_output> --offset <partition_address_in_memory> --size <partition_size>

   In this command:

    * ``<path_to_JSON_file>`` is a path to the JSON file containing appropriate factory data.
    * ``<path_to_output>`` is a path to an output file without any prefix.
      For example, providing ``/build/output`` as an argument will result in creating ``/build/output.hex`` and ``/build/output.bin``.
    * ``<partition_address_in_memory>`` is an address in the device's persistent storage area where a partition data set is to be stored.

>     * ``<partition_size>`` is a size of partition in the device's persistent storage area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * ``<partition_size>`` is the size of partition in the device's persistent storage area.
```

As a result, `the :file:`factory_data.hex` and :file:`factory_data.bin` files are created in the :file:`/build/light_bulb/zephyr/` directory.
The first file contains the memory offset.
For this reason, you can program it directly to the device using a programmer (for example, ``nrfutil device``).

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_building_example_with_factory_data:

Building an example with factory data
*************************************

You can manually generate the factory data set using the instructions described in the :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_generating_factory_data` section.
Another way is to use the nRF Connect platform build system that creates factory data content automatically using Kconfig options and includes the content in the final firmware binary.

To enable generating the factory data set automatically, go to the example's directory and build the example with the following option (replace ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840`` with your board name):

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   $ west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -- -DCONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA=y -DSB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE=y

> Alternatively, you can also add :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE=y` Kconfig setting to the example's :file:`sysbuild.conf` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can also add the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE=y` Kconfig setting to the example's :file:`sysbuild.conf` file.
```

> Each factory data parameter has a default value. These are described in the `Matter nRF Connect Kconfig`_.
> Setting a new value for the factory data parameter can be done either by providing it as a build argument list or by using interactive Kconfig interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each factory data parameter has a default value.
These are described in the `Matter nRF Connect Kconfig`_.
You can set a new value for the factory data parameter either by providing it as a build argument list or by using interactive Kconfig interfaces.
```

Providing factory data parameters as a build argument list
==========================================================

> This way for providing factory data can be used with third-party build script, as it uses only one command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide the factory data using a third-party build script, as it uses only one command.
```

> All parameters can be edited manually by providing them as an additional option for the west command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can edit all parameters manually by providing them as an additional option for the west command.
```

   (11223344556677889900) Serial number of device
   (Nordic Semiconductor ASA) Human-readable vendor name
   (not-specified) Human-readable product name
   (2022-01-01) Manufacturing date in ISO 8601
   (0) Integer representation of hardware version
   (prerelease) user-friendly string representation of hardware ver
   (0xF00) Device pairing discriminator
   (20202021) SPAKE2+ passcode
   (1000) SPAKE2+ iteration count
   (U1BBS0UyUCBLZXkgU2FsdA==) SPAKE2+ salt in string format
   (uWFwqugDNGiEck/po7KHwwMwwqZgN10XuyBajPGuyzUEV/iree4lOrao5GuwnlQ
   (91a9c12a7c80700a31ddcfa7fce63e44) A rotating device id unique i

Default Kconfig values and developing aspects
=============================================

Each factory data parameter has its default value reflected in the Kconfig.
The list below shows some Kconfig settings that are configured in the nRF Connect build system and have an impact on the application.
You can modify them to achieve the desired behavior of your application.

* The device uses the test certificates located in the :file:`credentials/development/attestation/` directory, which are generated using all default values.

>   If you want to change the default ``vendor_id``, ``product_id``, ``vendor_name``, or ``device_name`` and generate new test certificates, add the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_CERT_SOURCE_GENERATED=y` Kconfig option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you want to change the default ``vendor_id``, ``product_id``, ``vendor_name``, or ``device_name`` and generate new test certificates, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_CERT_SOURCE_GENERATED` Kconfig option to `` y``.
```

  Remember to build the ``chip-cert`` application and add it to the system PATH.

>   For developing a production-ready product, you need to write the certificates obtained during the certification process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For developing a production-ready device, you need to write the certificates obtained during the certification process.
```

>   To do this, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_CERT_SOURCE_USER` Kconfig option to ``y`` and set the appropriate paths for the following Kconfig options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_CERT_SOURCE_USER` Kconfig option to ``y`` and set the appropriate paths for the following Kconfig options:
```

* Generating the rotating device ID unique ID is disabled by default, but you can enable it by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ROTATING_DEVICE_ID` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_DEVICE_GENERATE_ROTATING_DEVICE_UID` Kconfig options to ``y``.
  Moreover, if you set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ROTATING_DEVICE_ID` Kconfig option to ``y`` and disable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_DEVICE_GENERATE_ROTATING_DEVICE_UID` Kconfig option, you need to provide it manually using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_DEVICE_ROTATING_DEVICE_UID` Kconfig value.

* You can generate the test Certification Declaration by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE_CD` Kconfig option to ``y``.
  Remember to build the ``chip-cert`` application and add it to the system PATH.

Programming factory data
************************

You can program the HEX file containing factory data into the device's flash memory using ``nrfutil device`` and the J-Link programmer.
Use the following command:

.. code-block:: console

   $ nrfutil device program --firmware factory_data.hex

.. note::
   For more information about how to use the ``nrfutil device`` utility, see `nRF Util`_.

> Another way to program the factory data to a device is to use the nRF Connect platform build system described in :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_building_example_with_factory_data`, and build an example with the additional option :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` set to ``y``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way to program the factory data to a device is to use the nRF Connect platform build system described in :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_building_example_with_factory_data`, and build an example with the additional :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE` Kconfig option set to ``y``:
```

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   $ west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -- \
   -DCONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA=y \
   -DSB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE=y \
   -DSB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE=y

You can also build an example with auto-generation of new CD, DAC and PAI certificates.
The newly generated certificates will be added to factory data set automatically.
To generate new certificates disable using default certificates by building an example with the additional option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_USE_DEFAULT_CERTS` set to ``n``:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   $ west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -- \
   -DCONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA=y \
   -DSB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE=y \
   -DSB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_MERGE_WITH_FIRMWARE=y \
   -DCONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_USE_DEFAULT_CERTS=n

.. note::
   To generate new certificates using the nRF Connect platform build system, you need the ``chip-cert`` executable in your system variable PATH.

>    To learn how to get ``chip-cert``, go to the note at the end of the :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_creating_the_factory_data_partition_with_the_second_script` section, and then add the newly built executable to the system variable PATH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To learn how to get ``chip-cert``, see the note at the end of the :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_creating_the_factory_data_partition_with_the_second_script` section, and add the newly built executable to the system variable PATH.
```

   The CMake build system will find this executable automatically.

> After that, use the following command from the example's directory to write firmware and newly generated factory data at the same time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, use the following command from the example's directory to write the firmware and newly generated factory data at the same time:
```

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   $ west flash

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_using_own_factory_data_implementation:

Using own factory data implementation
*************************************

The :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_generating_factory_data` described above is only an example valid for the nRF Connect platform.
You can well create a HEX file containing all :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_factory_data_component_table` in any format and then implement a parser to read out all parameters and pass them to a provider.

> Each manufacturer can implement a factory data set on its own by implementing a parser and a factory data accessor inside the Matter stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each manufacturer can implement their own factory data by implementing a parser and a factory data accessor inside the Matter stack.
```

===================

The factory data set must be saved into a HEX file that can be written to the flash memory of the Matter device.

In the nRF Connect example, the factory data set is represented in the CBOR format and is stored in a HEX file.
The file is then programmed to a device.
The JSON format is used as an intermediate, human-readable representation of the data.
The format is regulated by the `Factory data schema`_ file.

All parameters of the factory data set are either mandatory or optional:

* Mandatory parameters must always be provided, as they are required for example to perform commissioning to the Matter network.
* Optional parameters can be used for development and testing purposes.
  For example, the ``user`` data parameter consists of all data that is needed by a specific manufacturer and that is not included in the mandatory parameters.

In the factory data set, the following formats are used:

* uint8, uint16, and uint32 - These are the numeric formats representing, respectively, one-byte length unsigned integer, two-bytes length unsigned integer, and four-bytes length unsigned integer.
  This value is stored in a HEX file in the big-endian order.

> * Byte string - This parameter represents the sequence of integers between ``0`` and ``255``(inclusive), without any encoding.
>   Because the JSON format does not allow the use of byte strings, the ``hex:`` prefix is added to a parameter, and its representation is converted to a HEX string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Byte string - This parameter represents the sequence of integers between ``0`` and ``255`` (inclusive), without any encoding.
  Because the JSON format does not allow the use of byte strings, the ``hex:`` prefix is added to a parameter, and its representation is converted to a HEX string.
```

You can also use only the first script to generate both JSON and HEX files, by providing optional ``offset`` and ``size`` arguments, which results in invoking the script internally.
Such option is the recommended one, but invoking two scripts one by one is also supported to provide backward compatibility.

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_creating_the_factory_data_json_and_hex_files_with_the_first_script:

Creating the factory data JSON and HEX files with the first script
==================================================================

A Matter device needs a proper factory data partition stored in the flash memory to read out all required parameters during startup.
To simplify the factory data generation, you can use the `Generate factory data script`_ Python script to provide all required parameters and generate a human-readable JSON file and save it to a HEX file.

To use this script, complete the following steps:

1. Navigate to the ``connectedhomeip`` root directory.
#. Run the script with ``-h`` option to see all possible options:

> .. code-block:: console
> 
>    python scripts/tools/nrfconnect/generate_nrfconnect_chip_factory_data.py -h

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. code-block:: console

      python scripts/tools/nrfconnect/generate_nrfconnect_chip_factory_data.py -h
```

      * Provide an existing ID:

        .. code-block:: console

           --rd_uid <rotating device ID unique ID>

      * (optional) Generate a new ID and provide it:

        .. code-block:: console

           --generate_rd_uid --rd_uid <rotating device ID unique ID>

         You can find a newly generated unique ID in the console output.

   #. (optional) Add the JSON schema to verify the JSON file (replace the respective variable with the file path):

      .. code-block:: console

         --schema <path to JSON Schema file>

   #. (optional) Add a request to include a pairing passcode in the JSON file:

      .. code-block:: console

         --include_passcode

   #. (optional) Add the request to overwrite existing the JSON file:

      .. code-block:: console

         --overwrite

   #. (optional) Add the appearance of the product:

      .. code-block:: console

         --product_finish <finish> --product_color <color>

   #. (optional) Generate Certification Declaration for testing purposes

      .. code-block:: console

         --chip_cert_path <path to chip-cert executable> --gen_cd

      .. note::

>          To generate new Certification Declaration, you need the `chip-cert` executable. See the note at the end of this section to learn how to get it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         To generate new Certification Declaration, you need the ``chip-cert`` executable.
         See the note at the end of this section to learn how to get it.
```

   --pai_cert "credentials/development/attestation/Matter-Development-PAI-FFF1-noPID-Cert.der" \
   --spake2_it 1000 \
   --spake2_salt "U1BBS0UyUCBLZXkgU2FsdA==" \
   --discriminator 0xF00 \
   --generate_rd_uid \
   --passcode 20202021 \
   --product_finish "matte" \
   --product_color "black" \
   --out "build" \
   --schema "scripts/tools/nrfconnect/nrfconnect_factory_data.schema" \
   --offset 0xf7000 \
   --size 0x1000

As the result of the above example, a unique ID for the rotating device ID is created, SPAKE2+ verifier is generated using the ``spake2p`` executable, and the JSON file is verified using the prepared JSON Schema.

If the script finishes successfully, go to the location you provided with the ``-o`` argument.
Use the JSON file you find there when :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_generating_factory_data`.

.. note::
   Generating new certificates is optional if default vendor and product IDs are used and requires providing a path to the ``chip-cert`` executable.
   To get it, complete the following steps:

   1.  Navigate to the ``connectedhomeip`` root directory.

>    #.  In a terminal, run the command:
> 
>        .. code-block:: console
> 
>           cd src/tools/chip-cert && gn gen out && ninja -C out chip-cert
> 
>       to build the executable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #.  In a terminal, run the following command to build the executable:

       .. code-block:: console

          cd src/tools/chip-cert && gn gen out && ninja -C out chip-cert
```

   #. Add the ``connectedhomeip/src/tools/chip-cert/out/chip-cert`` path as an argument of ``--chip_cert_path`` for the Python script.

.. note::
   By default, overwriting the existing JSON file is disabled.
   This means that you cannot create a new JSON file with the same name in the exact location as an existing file.
   To allow overwriting, add the ``--overwrite`` option to the argument list of the Python script.

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_how_to_set_user_data:

> How to set user data
> ====================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting user data
=================
```

The user data is an optional field provided in the factory data JSON file and depends on the manufacturer's purpose.
The ``user`` field in a JSON factory data file is represented by a flat JSON map and it can consist of ``string`` or ``int32`` data types only.
On the device side, the ``user`` data will be available as a CBOR map containing all defined ``string`` and ``int32`` fields.

To add user data as an argument to the `Generate factory data script`_, add the following line to the argument list:

.. code-block:: console

   --user '{user data JSON}'

As ``user data JSON``, provide a flat JSON map with a value file that consists of ``string`` or ``int32`` types.
For example, you can use a JSON file that looks like follows:

.. code-block:: console

   {
        "name": "product_name",
        "version": 123,
        "revision": "0x123"
   }

When added to the argument line, the final result would look like follows:

.. code-block:: console

   --user '{"name": "product_name", "version": 123, "revision": "0x123"}'

> How to handle user data
> -----------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handling  user data
-------------------
```

The user data is not handled anywhere in the Matter stack, so you must handle it in your application.

> To do this, you can use the `Factory Data Provider`_ and apply one of the following methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `Factory Data Provider`_ and apply one of the following methods:
```

A message under the window indicates the validation status.

Option 3: Using the nRF Connect Python script
---------------------------------------------

You can have the JSON file checked automatically by the Python script during the file generation.
For this to happen, you must install the ``jsonschema`` Python module in your Python environment and provide the path to the JSON schema file as an additional argument.
To do this, complete the following steps:

1. Install the ``jsonschema`` Python module by invoking one of the following commands from the Matter root directory:

   * Install only the ``jsonschema`` module:

     .. code-block:: console

        $ python -m pip install jsonschema

   * Install the ``jsonschema`` module together with all dependencies for Matter:

     .. code-block:: console

        $ python -m pip install -r ./scripts/setup/requirements.nrfconnect.txt

#. Run the following command (remember to replace the ``<path_to_schema>`` variable):

   .. code-block:: console

      $ python generate_nrfconnect_chip_factory_data.py --schema <path_to_schema>

.. note::

>    To learn more about the JSON schema, visit `this unofficial JSON Schema tool usage website <https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To learn more about the JSON schema, visit `the unofficial JSON Schema tool usage website <https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/>`_.
```

   In this command:

    * _<path_to_JSON_file>_ is a path to the JSON file containing appropriate factory data.
    * _<path_to_output>_ is a path to an output file without any prefix.
      For example, providing ``/build/output`` as an argument will result in creating ``/build/output.hex`` and ``/build/output.bin``.
    * _<partition_address_in_memory>_ is an address in the device's persistent storage area where a partition data set is to be stored.
    * _<partition_size>_ is a size of partition in the device's persistent storage area.
      New data is checked according to this value of the JSON data to see if it fits the size.

To see the optional arguments for the script, use the following command:

.. code-block:: console

   $ python scripts/tools/nrfconnect/nrfconnect_generate_partition.py -h

**Example of the command for the nRF52840 DK:**

.. code-block:: console

   $ python scripts/tools/nrfconnect/nrfconnect_generate_partition.py -i build/light_bulb/zephyr/factory_data.json -o build/light_bulb/zephyr/factory_data --offset 0xfb000 --size 0x1000

> As a result, ``factory_data.hex`` and ``factory_data.bin`` files are created in the ``/build/light_bulb/zephyr/`` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, `the :file:`factory_data.hex` and :file:`factory_data.bin` files are created in the :file:`/build/light_bulb/zephyr/` directory.
```

+-------------+-------------+
| ``white``   | ``#FFFFFF`` |
+-------------+-------------+
| ``nickel``  | ``#727472`` |
+-------------+-------------+
| ``chrome``  | ``#a8a9ad`` |
+-------------+-------------+
| ``brass``   | ``#E1C16E`` |
+-------------+-------------+
| ``copper``  | ``#B87333`` |
+-------------+-------------+
| ``silver``  | ``#C0C0C0`` |
+-------------+-------------+
| ``gold``    | ``#FFD700`` |
+-------------+-------------+

Enabling factory data support
*****************************

By default, the factory data support is disabled in all nRF Connect examples and the nRF Connect device uses predefined parameters from the Matter core, which you should not change.
To start using factory data stored in the flash memory and the ``Factory Data Provider`` from the nRF Connect platform, build an example with the following option (replace ``<build_target>`` with your board name, for example, ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840``):

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   west build -b <build_target> -- -DCONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA=y

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_generating_factory_data:

Generating factory data
***********************

> This section describes generating factory data using the following nRF Connect Python scripts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes generating factory data using the following `Matter nRF Connect scripts`_:
```

* The first script creates a JSON file that contains a user-friendly representation of the factory data.
* The second script uses the JSON file to create a factory data partition and save it to a HEX file.

After these operations, program a HEX file containing the factory data partition into the device's flash memory.

You can use the second script without invoking the first one by providing a JSON file written in another way.
To make sure that the JSON file is correct and the device is able to read out parameters, refer to the :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_verifying_using_json_schema_tool` section.

You can also use only the first script to generate both JSON and HEX files, by providing optional ``offset`` and ``size`` arguments, which results in invoking the script internally.

> Such option is the recommended one, but invoking two scripts one by one is also supported to provide backward compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is the recommended one, but invoking two scripts one by one is also supported to provide backward compatibility.
```

           --dac_cert <path to DAC certificate>.der --dac_key <path to DAC key>.der --pai_cert <path to PAI certificate>.der

   #. (optional) Add the new unique ID for rotating device ID using one of the following options:

      * Provide an existing ID:

        .. code-block:: console

           --rd_uid <rotating device ID unique ID>

      * (optional) Generate a new ID and provide it:

        .. code-block:: console

           --generate_rd_uid --rd_uid <rotating device ID unique ID>

        You can find the newly generated unique ID in the console output.

   #. (optional) Add the JSON schema to verify the JSON file (replace the respective variable with the file path):

      .. code-block:: console

         --schema <path to JSON Schema file>

   #. (optional) Add a request to include a pairing passcode in the JSON file:

      .. code-block:: console

         --include_passcode

   #. (optional) Add the request to overwrite existing the JSON file:

      .. code-block:: console

         --overwrite

   #. (optional) Add the appearance of the product:

      .. code-block:: console

         --product_finish <finish> --product_color <color>

>    #. (optional) Generate Certification Declaration for testing purposes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. (optional) Generate the Certification Declaration for testing purposes:
```

      .. code-block:: console

         --chip_cert_path <path to chip-cert executable> --gen_cd

      .. note::

>          To generate new Certification Declaration, you need the ``chip-cert`` executable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         To generate a new Certification Declaration, you need the ``chip-cert`` executable.
```

         See the note at the end of this section to learn how to get it.

>    #. (optional) Set the partition offset that is an address in device's NVM memory, where factory data will be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. (optional) Set the partition offset that is an address in device's NVM memory, where factory data will be stored:
```

      .. code-block:: console

         --offset <offset>

      .. note::
         To generate a HEX file with factory data, you need to provide both ``offset`` and ``size`` optional arguments.
         As a result, the :file:`factory_data.hex` and :file:`factory_data.bin` files are created in the :file:`output` directory.
         The first file contains the required memory offset.
         For this reason, you can program it directly to the device using a programmer (for example, ``nrfutil device``).

>    #. (optional) Set the maximum partition size in device's NVM memory, where factory data will be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. (optional) Set the maximum partition size in device's NVM memory, where factory data will be stored:
```

Only after this setup is complete, you can use all variables in your code and cast the result to your own purpose.

The code example of how to read all fields from the JSON example one by one can look like follows:

.. code-block:: C++

   chip::DeviceLayer::FactoryDataProvider factoryDataProvider;

   factoryDataProvider.Init();

   uint8_t user_name[12];
   size_t name_len = sizeof(user_name);
   factoryDataProvider.GetUserKey("name", user_name, name_len);

   int32_t version;
   size_t version_len = sizeof(version);
   factoryDataProvider.GetUserKey("version", &version, version_len);

   uint8_t revision[5];
   size_t revision_len = sizeof(revision);
   factoryDataProvider.GetUserKey("revision", revision, revision_len);

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_verifying_using_json_schema_tool:

Verifying using the JSON Schema tool
====================================

You can verify the JSON file that contains factory data using the `Factory data schema`_.
You can use one of the following three options to validate the structure and contents of the JSON data.

Option 1: Using the php-json-schema tool
----------------------------------------

> To check the JSON file using a JSON Schema verification tool manually on a Linux machine, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: Can we link to this tool?

1. Install the ``php-json-schema`` package:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ sudo apt install php-json-schema

#. Run the following command, with ``<path_to_JSON_file>`` and ``<path_to_schema_file>`` replaced with the paths to the JSON file and the Schema file, respectively:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ validate-json <path_to_JSON_file> <path_to_schema_file>

The tool returns empty output in case of success.

Option 2: Using a website validator
-----------------------------------

You can also use external websites instead of the ``php-json-schema`` tool to verify a factory data JSON file.

> For example, open the `JSON Schema Validator website <https://www.jsonschemavalidator.net/>`_ and copy-paste the content of the `Factory data schema`_ to the first window and a JSON file to the second one.

Reviewer: Add this link to the links.txt and use it.

A message under the window indicates the validation status.

Option 3: Using the nRF Connect Python script
---------------------------------------------

You can have the JSON file checked automatically by the Python script during the file generation.
Install the ``jsonschema`` Python module in your Python environment and provide the path to the JSON schema file as an additional argument.
Complete the following steps:

1. Install the ``jsonschema`` Python module by invoking one of the following commands from the Matter root directory:

   * Install only the ``jsonschema`` module:

     .. code-block:: console

        $ python -m pip install jsonschema

   * Install the ``jsonschema`` module together with all dependencies for Matter:

     .. code-block:: console

        $ python -m pip install -r ./scripts/setup/requirements.nrfconnect.txt

#. Run the following command (remember to replace the ``<path_to_schema>`` variable):

   .. code-block:: console

      $ python generate_nrfconnect_chip_factory_data.py --schema <path_to_schema>

.. note::

>    To learn more about the JSON schema, see `the unofficial JSON Schema tool usage website <https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/>`_.

Reviewer: Add also this link to the links.txt and use it.

#. Run the script.
#. Navigate to the output directory provided as the ``-o`` argument.

The output directory contains the following files you need:

* JSON file containing the latest factory data set.
* Test file containing the generated manual code and the text version of the QR Code.
* PNG file containing the generated QR code as an image.

Enabling onboarding codes generation within the build system
------------------------------------------------------------

You can generate the onboarding codes using the nRF Connect platform build system described in :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_building_example_with_factory_data`, and build an example with the additional :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE_ONBOARDING_CODES` Kconfig option set to ``y``.

For example, the build command for the nRF52840 DK could look like this:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   $ west build -b nrf52840dk_nrf52840 -- \
   -DCONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA=y \
   -DSB_CONFIG_MATTER_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE=y \
   -DCONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE_ONBOARDING_CODES=y

Preparing factory data partition on a device
============================================

> The factory data partition is an area in the device's persistent storage where a factory data set is stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The factory data partition is an area in the device's persistent storage, where the factory data set is stored.
```

This area is configured using the :ref:`partition_manager`, within which all partitions are declared in the :file:`pm_static.yml` file.

To prepare an example that supports factory data, add a partition called ``factory_data`` to the :file:`pm_static.yml` file.
The partition size should be a multiple of one flash page (for nRF52 and nRF53 SoCs, a single page size equals 4 kB).

See the following code snippet for an example of a factory data partition in the :file:`pm_static.yml` file.
The snippet is based on the :file:`pm_static.yml` file from the :ref:`matter_lock_sample` and uses the nRF52840 DK:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   mcuboot_primary_app:
       orig_span: &id002
           - app
       span: \*id002
       address: 0x7200
       size: 0xf3e00

   factory_data:
       address: 0xfb00
       size: 0x1000
       region: flash_primary

   settings_storage:
       address: 0xfc000
       size: 0x4000
       region: flash_primary

In this example, a ``factory_data`` partition has been placed between the application partition (``mcuboot_primary_app``) and the settings storage.
Its size has been set to one flash page (4 kB).

> Use Partition Manager's report tool to ensure you created a factory data partition correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Partition Manager's report tool to ensure you created the factory data partition correctly.
```

    * ``<partition_size>`` is the size of partition in the device's persistent storage area.
      New data is checked according to this value of the JSON data to see if it fits the size.

To see the optional arguments for the script, use the following command:

.. code-block:: console

   $ python scripts/tools/nrfconnect/nrfconnect_generate_partition.py -h

**Example of the command for the nRF52840 DK:**

.. code-block:: console

   $ python scripts/tools/nrfconnect/nrfconnect_generate_partition.py -i build/light_bulb/zephyr/factory_data.json -o build/light_bulb/zephyr/factory_data --offset 0xfb000 --size 0x1000

As a result, `the :file:`factory_data.hex` and :file:`factory_data.bin` files are created in the :file:`/build/light_bulb/zephyr/` directory.
The first file contains the memory offset.
For this reason, you can program it directly to the device using a programmer (for example, ``nrfutil device``).

.. _ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_building_example_with_factory_data:

Building an example with factory data
*************************************

> You can manually generate the factory data set using the instructions described in the :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_generating_factory_data` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can manually generate the factory data set using the instructions provided in the :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_generating_factory_data` section.
```

> Another way is to use the nRF Connect platform build system that creates factory data content automatically using Kconfig options and includes the content in the final firmware binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way is to use the nRF Connect platform build system that creates the factory data content automatically using Kconfig options and includes the content in the final firmware binary.
```

  For developing a production-ready device, you need to write the certificates obtained during the certification process.
  Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_CERT_SOURCE_USER` Kconfig option to ``y`` and set the appropriate paths for the following Kconfig options:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_USER_CERTS_DAC_CERT`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_USER_CERTS_DAC_KEY`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_USER_CERTS_PAI_CERT`

* By default, the SPAKE2+ verifier is generated during each example's build.
  This means that this value will change automatically if you change any of the following parameters:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_DEVICE_SPAKE2_PASSCODE`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_DEVICE_SPAKE2_SALT`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_DEVICE_SPAKE2_IT`

  You can disable the generation of the SPAKE2+ verifier by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_FACTORY_DATA_GENERATE_SPAKE2_VERIFIER` Kconfig option to ``n``.
  You also need to provide the externally-generated SPAKE2+ verifier using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_DEVICE_SPAKE2_TEST_VERIFIER` Kconfig value.

> * Generating the rotating device ID unique ID is disabled by default, but you can enable it by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ROTATING_DEVICE_ID` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_DEVICE_GENERATE_ROTATING_DEVICE_UID` Kconfig options to ``y``.

Reviewer: ... "the rotating device ID unique ID": could this be "the unique rotating device ID"?

Author: It should be unique ID for rotating device ID. These are two separate ids, and one is required by the other one.

Using own factory data implementation
*************************************

The :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_generating_factory_data` described above is only an example valid for the nRF Connect platform.
You can well create a HEX file containing all :ref:`ug_matter_device_factory_provisioning_factory_data_component_table` in any format and then implement a parser to read out all parameters and pass them to a provider.
Each manufacturer can implement their own factory data by implementing a parser and a factory data accessor inside the Matter stack.
Use the :file:`FactoryDataProvider.h` and :file:`FactoryDataParser.h` files from the `Matter nRF Connect platform source files`_ as examples.

You can read the factory data set from the device's flash memory in different ways, depending on the purpose and the format.
In the nRF Connect example, the factory data is stored in the CBOR format.
The device uses the :file:`FactoryDataParser.h` file to read out raw data, decode it, and store it in the ``FactoryData`` structure.
The :file:`FactoryDataProvider.c` implementation uses this parser to get all needed factory data parameters and provide them to the Matter core.

> In the nRF Connect example, the ``FactoryDataProvider`` is a template class that inherits from ``DeviceAttestationCredentialsProvider``, ``CommissionableDataProvider``, and ``DeviceInstanceInfoProvider`` classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the nRF Connect example, the ``FactoryDataProvider`` is a template class that inherits from the ``DeviceAttestationCredentialsProvider``, ``CommissionableDataProvider``, and ``DeviceInstanceInfoProvider`` classes.
```

      CHIP_ERROR GetVendorName(char * buf, size_t bufSize) override;
      CHIP_ERROR GetVendorId(uint16_t & vendorId) override;
      CHIP_ERROR GetProductName(char * buf, size_t bufSize) override;
      CHIP_ERROR GetProductId(uint16_t & productId) override;
      CHIP_ERROR GetSerialNumber(char * buf, size_t bufSize) override;
      CHIP_ERROR GetManufacturingDate(uint16_t & year, uint8_t & month, uint8_t & day) override;
      CHIP_ERROR GetHardwareVersion(uint16_t & hardwareVersion) override;
      CHIP_ERROR GetHardwareVersionString(char * buf, size_t bufSize) override;
      CHIP_ERROR GetRotatingDeviceIdUniqueId(MutableByteSpan & uniqueIdSpan) override;

#. Move the newly created parser and provider files to your project directory.
#. Add the files to the :file:`CMakeList.txt` file.
#. Disable building both the default and the nRF Connect implementations of factory data providers to start using your own implementation of factory data parser and provider.
   This can be done in one of the following ways:

   * Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FACTORY_DATA_CUSTOM_BACKEND` Kconfig option to ``y`` in the :file:`prj.conf` file.

>    * Build an example with following option (replace ``<build_target>`` with your board name, for example ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840``):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Build an example with the following option (replace ``<build_target>`` with your board name, for example ``nrf52840dk_nrf52840``):
```
